147The following appeared in an editorial in a business magazine.

"Although the sales of Whirlwind video games have declined over the
past two years, a recent survey of video-game players suggests that
this sales trend is about to be reversed. The survey asked video-game
players what features they thought were most important in a video
game. According to the survey, players prefer games that provide
lifelike graphics, which require the most up-to-date
computers. Whirlwind has just introduced several such games with an
extensive advertising campaign directed at people 10 to 25 years old,
the age-group most likely to play video games. It follows, then, that
the sales of Whirlwind video games are likely to increase dramatically
in the next few months."

abstract:
1. First of all, we still don't know the real reason that caused sale
of Whirlwind video games decline. The survey didn't tell us whether
lack of feature is the root cause. The potential cause can be high
price, poor software quality. Think of a fantastic video game which
does provide player with real lifelike graphics, but it always crashs
when customer tries it, it can be asserted the game can only make
customer feel annoyed but earning to buy it. As well, affortable price
is a decidible fact make customer buy the game finally.
2. Even if lack of lifelike graphics is the real reason that sale
decrements, it can be a long time longer than severy month before
sales of video games increase. As the aricle said, this kind of
feature requires the most up-to-date computers, so that another
blockage is set up between the games and player. Most up-to-date
computers means extra cost for many players, most of which are 10 to
25 years old who are still in school or just work for few years.
