After a hard day of work or study, many people feel like cooking for
themselves is too much touble. The prefer to grab a quick bite to eat
at a restaurant and go home for rest as quickly as possible. But for
me cooking at home is worth the time and trouble because it is
cheaper, healthier, and more enjoyable.
>>>To enjoy the cooking after 8 hours hard working? No. I prefer to
>>>eat at restaurant because restaurant serve me better, and, in
>>>additionally, it can save much time for me.

>>>Food of restaurant is better on taste. Cookers in restaurant are trained so the food provided by them can
>>>be expected to be delicious. On the other hand, as an engineer, I
>>>cannot make food as tastefull as that they cook. Furthermore,
>>>dishes I can cook are limited in few ones, while chefs in
>>>restaurant can provide a lot of kinds of dishes, Chinese food,
>>>French food, Italian food, and many others some of which may even
>>>not be heard before.

>>>Eating in restaurant saves much time for me. After 8 hours of
>>>working, I'm always longing to enjoy my own time with family and
>>>friends, so I don't want to waste my time on preparing food by
>>>myself. Preparing food at home is a time consuming task which may takes
>>>more than 2 hours for a simple diner, while I can get a well cooked
>>>diner within no more than 30 minutes in restaurant. 

>>>Restaurant provides me comfortable environment for
>>>eating. Restaurants are always well decorated, and some of them
>>>even provide music. The dishwares are always clean and shining in
>>>restaurant.

Buying my own groceries and cooking for myself is much less expensive
than eating in a restaturnt. I find that a meal that I cook myself on
average costs half to two-thirds less than a comparable meal in a
restaurant. Restaurants have to rent space, hire chefs, waiters, and
managers, as well as buy food and make a profit. When I cook I have no
overhead. The only extra expense I have to pay is the time it takes
for me to cook the food.

In addition to being less expensive, when I buy my own groceries I can
be sure I am buying the freshest and cleanest meats and vegetables
available. Restaurants might think it's more important to buy the
cheapest food possible in large quantities to make a higher profit. I
also try and buy the healthiest food possible. For instance, when I
buy meat, I try and buy the meat with the least fat on it. In a
restaurant they add more fat and oil to dishes to make them taste
better, but for me, health is more important.

Finally, cooking food with my friends and family brings me a special
kind of joy. In a world that has increasingly focused on truning
everyone into consumers, I enjoy being creative and producing
something good. I enloy learning and inventing new recipes and sharing
them with friends. Even though it takes more time to shop, cook, and
clean up when I cook for myself, at the end I have a sense that I did
not waste the time so much as I truly enjoyed life for an hour at the
end of the day.

