The main responsibility of a university is to develop a student's
academic ability. While physical health is an important prerequisite
for mental health and academic achievement, sports should play a
comparatively small role in college student's lives.
>>>It should be the main responsibility of a university to develop a
>>>student's academic ability for comprehensive universities, so it's
>>>reasonable for them to spend more money to libraries than to sports
>>>activities. On the other hand, sports school shall reverse the
>>>priorities of them.

Since a student's main activity outside of the classroom is studying,
occupying from four to eight hours of their day, a peaceful studying
environment plays an important role in a student's academic
development. College dorm rooms can have up to eight students
sleeping in one small room and are not good environments for students
to study in. To provide excellent studying environments for their
students, universities must build large libaries designed to
accommodate students as well as books. Since sports should occupy a
much smaller part of the student's time, perhaps only an hour a day,
sports facilities need not be as extensive or well-equipped as
libraries.
>>>
>>>>>>Most of sports facilities can be shared while books, journals
>>>>>>and other academic material cannot be shared between different
>>>>>>subject.

In addition to the costs of building adequate library faculties, a
university must also pay every year to keep its collection well
organized and up-to-date. The goal of every university library should
be to have the most current books and materials its students need in
order to studay and do cutting edge research. The larger the student
body, the more comprehensive a library's collection must be. A
well-trained staff must also care for the materials and help the
students. Continuing costs for sports, on the other hand, are
relatively low, requiring only a few part-time staff and maintenance
routines. For the most part, students are happy to organize their own
sporting events and exercise routines quite independently of the
school. 
>>>

Although a student's health is critical to their academic sucess, the
investment that a school needs to make to ensure a physically fit
student body is relatively small. Considering that the main mission of
the school is to develop a student's mind and not their body, the
school put more of its resources into its libraries and not its sports
activities.
