Dear Sir/Madam,

This letter is to express my interest in the job posting for a SIG
Software Engineer. I believe that my technical skills and engineering
experiences will prove to be an effective match for your
qualifications.

The key strengths that I process for success in this position include,
but not limited to, the following:

1. I desire logical software solutions. Several times I refused the
quick-and-dirty fixing and worked out a solution after hard
root-causing. I also encouraged and helped others to resolve problems
from the stump. It's always satisfy me to study hardware manual and
related OS code so that it can be driven as it shall be.

2. 3+ years of embedded OS and device driver development
experiences. I'm sensitive to potential problems caused by interrupt
handling, thread safety, timing, and skillful to debug low level
drivers and firmwares.

3. Strong software development life cycle knowledge and practical
experiences in MSG and LJ team. I had been leading a team in CMMI
level 5 organization for more than one year and delivered qualified
software on time for iDEN. After months in MAGS team, I'm familiar
with LJ rules and processes.

4. Experience of cooperating with multi-site partners. I was the
contact of PCK team with iDEN partners. Now I leads several
integration tasks involving Libertyville team, Toulous team and
Beijing Team, and they process smoothly.

Please see my resume for additional information on my experience. 
References are available upon request.

I'm living and working in Libertyville till the end of May, 2008. I'm 
looking for an opportunity in U.S., partly for family reason. The most
effective way reaching me is by email, a22543@motorola.com. Thank you
for your time and consideration. I look forward to hearing from you.

Sincerely,
Peng
