Dear Madam/Sir,

I am writing in response to your advertisement in recrutech.ca for an
Embedded Software Design Engineer. I am a senior software engineer
working in Motorola China. Due to family reasons, I am seeking for a
job opportunity in North America. I am truly excited to be submitting
my resume for such a position that match my background and my personal
career development objective and I believe that my proficient skills
and abundant experience in embedded software development will meet
your qualifications as well.

With more than four years of embedded OS and device driver development
experiences, I'm sensitive to those potential problems caused by
interrupt handling, race condition, timing, and skillful to debug low
level drivers and firmwares. It's always satisfy me to make system
driven as it should be, so lots of times, I chose to study the
hardware manuals or OS code hard to fix bugs, refusing quick but dirty
fixing. 

As contact and leader of project, I show ability of cooperation with
multi-site partners. Now I'm leading several integration tasks
involving Libertyville team, Toulous team and Beijing Team, and they
proceed smoothly. Misunderstanding, lack of common ground and
ambiguous actions could delay the global team hours or more time. So,
in conference meetings, mails, I'm removing those blocks and helping
team achive progress every day, using my expertise of embedded system
development.

I'm traveling in Libertyville, Illinois for short-term work now. I
would appreciate to have the opportunity to talk with you more about
my work experience and how my skill set could contribute to your
position. I am available to be contacted through email or cell phone
(9:00AM-20:00PM).

I look forward to discussing the position with you and I will call you
in two weeks to check the status of the position.

Sincerely,

Peng Liu
