Dear Madam/Sir,

I am writing in response to your advertisement for an Embedded
Software Engineer. I am a senior software engineer working in Motorola
China. Due to family reasons, I am seeking for a job opportunity in
the States. I am truly excited to be submitting my resume for such a
position that match my background and my personal career development
objective and I believe that my proficient skills and abundant
experience in embedded software development will meet your
qualifications as well.

With more than five years of embedded OS and device driver development
experiences, I'm sensitive to those potential problems caused by
interrupt handling, race condition, timing, and skillful to debug low
level drivers and firmwares. With the expertise, I've accelerated the
deliveries of a few mobile devices. Now, it's still encouraging me to
dig into the hardware specs and then work out best means to drive the
devices, to design comprehensive test cases, to analyze and fix bugs
from the root. In a word, I found fulfillment in it.

As contact and leader of projects, I show ability of cooperation with
multi-site partners. Now I'm leading several integration tasks
involving Libertyville team, Toulous team and Beijing Team, and
they're proceeding smoothly. In conference meetings, mails, I
summarize issues and actions, provide my inside analysis. I love to
help team achieve progress, and I'm desiring to contribute to your
team.

I'm traveling in Libertyville, Illinois for short-term work now. I
would appreciate to have the opportunity to talk with you more about
my work experience and how my skill set could contribute to your
position. I am available to be contacted through email or cell phone
(8:00AM-20:00PM).

I look forward to discussing the position with you and I will call you
in two weeks to check the status of the position.

Sincerely,

Peng Liu
