* Here's a list of articles

** Shi Jiugen

 - The Study of CAN Networks application in Real-time System

 

** Ouri Wolfson

 - Key Words: mobile computing, MOBI-DIK, 
 - P2P words lib and related research


Booth, J.; Di Eugenio, B.; Cruz, I.F.; Wolfson, O., "Query Sentences as Semantic (Sub) Networks," Semantic Computing, 2009. ICSC '09. IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.89-94, 14-16 Sept. 2009
Abstract: This paper presents an approach for representing queries in natural language as semantic networks. The semantic representation is intended to facilitate the translation between natural language and database queries. A domain agnostic algorithm, based on shallow features, is used to map a sentence to a sub-network of concepts within a larger ontology. This work focuses on transportation information systems and gives promising preliminary results.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5298583&isnumber=5298512

Yan Luo; Wolfson, O.; Bo Xu, "Mobile local search via P2P databases," Portable Information Devices, 2008 and the 2008 7th IEEE Conference on Polymers and Adhesives in Microelectronics and Photonics. PORTABLE-POLYTRONIC 2008. 2nd IEEE International Interdisciplinary Conference on , vol., no., pp.1-6, 17-20 Aug. 2008
Abstract: We examine the problem of mobile local search via P2P databases. We argue that P2P databases can lead to a new form of mass communication that may revolutionize local search. We introduce our approach, MOBI-DIK, which is a platform-independent search engine based on mobile P2P databases.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4681272&isnumber=4681256

Ting Zhong; Bo Xu; Wolfson, O., "Disseminating real-time traffic information in vehicular ad-hoc networks," Intelligent Vehicles Symposium, 2008 IEEE , vol., no., pp.1056-1061, 4-6 June 2008
Abstract: In this paper we propose an algorithm for disseminating reports about real-time traffic conditions in vehicular ad-hoc networks. Using this method, each vehicle makes local decision on when to disseminate reports, how many to disseminate, and which reports to disseminate. In order to deal with the bandwidth and memory constraints, reports are prioritized in terms of their value, as reflected by supply and demand. We compare the proposed algorithm with Grassroots, an existing VANET dissemination algorithm. The comparison is based on simulation of vehicle mobility in a real road network and of the 802.11 protocol. The simulation results show that the proposed algorithm outperforms Grassroots in the environments where VANET dissemination is challenging.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4621303&isnumber=4621124

Yan Luo; Wolfson, O.; Bo Xu, "The role of auto-ID technologies in mobile E-commerce databases (vision paper)," Data Engineering Workshop, 2008. ICDEW 2008. IEEE 24th International Conference on , vol., no., pp.108-109, 7-12 April 2008
Abstract: In this environment each mobile peer has a local database that stores and manages a collection of reports (where each report is a product record, or a coupon), and all the local databases maintained by the mobile peers form a mobile e-commerce (or, more generally, a mobile P2P) database. Queries on this database are posed by potential customers, and they search for coupons and products pertaining to a limited geographic environment. For example, a customer may search for a store that sells a ThinkPad 61 power cord in a mall or an airport, or for a coupon on an Adidas tennis racquet that is accepted by the SportsMart store in the mall. The peers communicate reports and queries to neighbors directly. However, observe that the wireless technologies have a short range compared to the search area (e.g. a mall). Thus, reports and queries need to propagate by transitive multi-hop transmissions. If a query locates the answer product information in a remote device, the information may be propagated to the query originator in a P2P fashion, or via the Internet. Observe that the query cannot be sent directly via the Internet since the id of the device storing the answer is not known; thus, local dissemination is ensured by multi-hop short-range wireless communication. However, if the id of the query originator is appended to the query, then it is possible to propagate the answer back to the originator via the infrastructure.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4498298&isnumber=4498260

** Lui Sha

Xue Liu; Jin Heo; Lui Sha; Xiaoyun Zhu, "Queueing-Model-Based Adaptive Control of Multi-Tiered Web Applications," Network and Service Management, IEEE Transactions on , vol.5, no.3, pp.157-167, September 2008
Abstract: Web applications have been increasingly deployed on the Internet. How to effectively allocate system resources to meet the Service Level Objectives (SLOs) is a challenging problem for Web application providers. In this article, we propose a scheme for automated performance control of Web applications via dynamic resource allocations. The scheme uses a queueing model predictor and an online adaptive feedback loop that enforces admission control of the incoming requests to ensure the desired response time target is met. The proposed Queueing-Model-Based Adaptive Control approach combines both the modeling power of queueing theory and the self-tuning power of adaptive control. Therefore, it can handle both modeling inaccuracies and load disturbances in a better way. To evaluate the proposed approach, we built a multi-tiered Web application testbed with open-source components widely adopted in industry. Experimental studies conducted on the testbed demonstrated the effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4805132&isnumber=4805129

Xue Liu; Qixin Wang; Gopalakrishnan, S.; Wenbo He; Lui Sha; Hui Ding; Kihwal Lee, "ORTEGA: An Efficient and Flexible Online Fault Tolerance Architecture for Real-Time Control Systems," Industrial Informatics, IEEE Transactions on , vol.4, no.4, pp.213-224, Nov. 2008
Abstract: Fault tolerance is an important aspect in real-time computing. In real-time control systems, tasks could be faulty due to various reasons. Faulty tasks may compromise the performance and safety of the whole system and even cause disastrous consequences. In this paper, we describe On-demand real-time guard (ORTEGA), a new software fault tolerance architecture for real-time control systems. ORTEGA has high fault coverage and reliability. Compared with existing real-time fault tolerance architectures, such as Simplex, ORTEGA allows more efficient resource utilizations and enhances flexibility. These advantages are achieved through the on-demand detection and recovery of faulty tasks. ORTEGA is applicable to most industrial control applications where both efficient resource usage and high fault coverage are desired.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4753900&isnumber=4753889

Qixin Wang; Rong Zheng; Tirumala, A.; Xue Liu; Lui Sha, "Lightning: A Hard Real-Time, Fast, and Lightweight Low-End Wireless Sensor Election Protocol for Acoustic Event Localization," Mobile Computing, IEEE Transactions on , vol.7, no.5, pp.570-584, May 2008
Abstract: We present the Lightning Protocol, a hard real-time, fast, and lightweight protocol to elect the sensor closest to an impulsive sound source. This protocol can serve proximity-based localization or leader election for sensor collaboration. It utilizes the fact that electromagnetic waves propagate much faster than acoustic waves to efficiently reduce the number of contending sensors in the election. With simple RF bursts, most basic comparison operations, no need of clock synchronization, and a memory footprint as small as 5,330 bytes of ROM and 187 bytes of RAM, the protocol incurs O(1) transmissions, irrespective of the sensor density, and guarantees hard real-time (O(1)) localization time cost. Experiment results using UC Berkeley Motes in a common office environment demonstrate that the time delay for the Lightning Protocol is on the order of milliseconds. The simplicity of the protocol reduces memory cost, computation complexity, and programming difficulty, making it desirable for low-end wireless sensors.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4358996&isnumber=4475867

Gopalakrishnan, S.; Caccamo, M.; Lui Sha, "Sharp Thresholds for Scheduling Recurring Tasks with Distance Constraints," Computers, IEEE Transactions on , vol.57, no.3, pp.344-358, March 2008
Abstract: The problem of identifying suitable conditions for the schedulability of (nonpreemptive) recurring tasks with deadlines is of great importance to real-time systems. In this paper, motivated by the problem of scheduling radar dwells, we show that scheduling problems of this nature show a sharp threshold behavior with respect to system utilization. Sharp thresholds are associated with phase transitions: When the utilization of a task set is less than a critical value, it can be scheduled almost surely and, when the utilization increases beyond the critical level, almost no task set can be scheduled. We make connections to work on random graphs to prove the sharp threshold behavior in the scheduling problem of interest. Using extensive experiments, we determine the threshold for the radar dwell scheduling problem and use it for performance optimization. The connections to random graph theory suggest new ways for understanding the average-case behavior of scheduling policies. These results emphasize the ease with which performance can be controlled in a variety of real-time systems.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4358253&isnumber=4487014

Miller, S.P.; Cofer, D.D.; Lui Sha; Meseguer, J.; Al-Nayeem, A., "Implementing logical synchrony in integrated modular avionics," Digital Avionics Systems Conference, 2009. DASC '09. IEEE/AIAA 28th , vol., no., pp.1.A.3-1-1.A.3-12, 23-29 Oct. 2009
Abstract: Many avionics systems must be implemented as redundant, distributed systems in order to provide the necessary level of fault tolerance. To correctly perform their function, the individual nodes of these systems must agree on some part of the global system state. Developing protocols to achieve this agreement is greatly simplified if the nodes execute synchronously relative to each other, but many Integrated Modular Avionics architectures assume nodes will execute asynchronously. This paper presents a simple design pattern, Physically Asynchronous/Logically Synchronous (PALS), that allows developers to design and verify a distributed, redundant system as though all nodes execute synchronously. This synchronous design can then be distributed over a physically asynchronous architecture in such a way that the logical correctness of the design is preserved. Use of this complexity reducing design pattern greatly simplifies the development and verification of fault tolerant distributed applications, ensures optimal system performance, and provides a standard argument for system certification.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5347579&isnumber=5347412

Bak, Stanley; Betti, Emiliano; Pellizzoni, Rodolfo; Caccamo, Marco; Sha, Lui, "Real-Time Control of I/O COTS Peripherals for Embedded Systems," Real-Time Systems Symposium, 2009, RTSS 2009. 30th IEEE , vol., no., pp.193-203, 1-4 Dec. 2009
Abstract: Real-time embedded systems are increasingly being built using commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS) components such as mass-produced peripherals and buses to reduce costs, time-to-market, and increase performance. Unfortunately, COTS interconnect systems do not usually guarantee timeliness, and might experience severe timing degradation in the presence of high-bandwidth I/O peripherals. To address this problem, we designed a real-time I/O management system comprised of 1) real-time bridges, and 2) a reservation controller. The proposed framework is used to transparently put the I/O subsystem of a COTS-based embedded system under the discipline of real-time scheduling. We also discuss computing a delay bound for I/O data transactions and determining worst-case buffer size. Finally, we demonstrate experimentally that our prototype real-time I/O management system successfully prioritizes I/O traffic and guarantees its timeliness.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5368829&isnumber=5368116

Min-Young Nam; Pellizzoni, R.; Lui Sha; Bradford, R.M., "ASIIST: Application Specific I/O Integration Support Tool for Real-Time Bus Architecture Designs," Engineering of Complex Computer Systems, 2009 14th IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.11-22, 2-4 June 2009
Abstract: In hard real-time systems such as avionics, computer board level designs are typically customized to meet specific reliability and real time requirements. This paper focuses on computer-aided application-specific design of I/O architecture using PCI as an example. We have built a tool (ASIIST) that will enable engineers to explore design spaces at the I/O bus architecture level, performing analysis that incorporates bus protocols, to provide guarantees of real-time properties.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=5090507&isnumber=5090496

Bak, S.; Chivukula, D.K.; Adekunle, O.; Mu Sun; Caccamo, M.; Lui Sha, "The System-Level Simplex Architecture for Improved Real-Time Embedded System Safety," Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium, 2009. RTAS 2009. 15th IEEE , vol., no., pp.99-107, 13-16 April 2009
Abstract: Embedded systems in safety-critical environments demand safety guarantees while providing many useful services that are too complex to formally verify or fully test. Existing application-level fault-tolerance methods, even if formally verified, leave the system vulnerable to errors in the real-time operating system (RTOS), middleware, and microprocessor. We introduce the system-level simplex architecture, which uses hardware/software co-design to provide fail-operational guarantees for both logical application-level faults, as well as faults in previously dependent layers including the RTOS and microprocessor. We also provide an end-to-end design process for the system-level simplex architecture where the AADL architecture description is automatically constructed and checked and the VHDL hardware code is generated. To show the efficacy of System-Level Simplex design, we apply the approach to both a classic inverted pendulum and a cardiac pacemaker. We perform fault-injection tests on the inverted pendulum design which demonstrate robustness in spite of software controller and operating system faults. For the pacemaker, we contrast the provided safety guarantees with those of a previous-generation pacemaker.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4840571&isnumber=4840552

Pellizzoni, R.; Bui, B.D.; Caccamo, M.; Lui Sha, "Coscheduling of CPU and I/O Transactions in COTS-Based Embedded Systems," Real-Time Systems Symposium, 2008 , vol., no., pp.221-231, Nov. 30 2008-Dec. 3 2008
Abstract: Integrating COTS components in critical real-time systems is challenging. In particular, we show that the interference between cache activity and I/O traffic generated by COTS peripherals can unpredictably slow down a real-time task by up to 44%. To solve this issue, we propose a framework comprised of three main components: 1) a COTS-compatible device, the peripheral gate, that controls peripheral access to the system; 2) an analytical technique that computes safe bounds on the I/O-induced task delay; 3) a coscheduling algorithm that maximizes the amount of allowed peripheral traffic while guaranteeing all real-time task constraints. We implemented the complete framework on a COTS-based system using PCI peripherals, and we performed extensive experiments to show its feasibility.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4700437&isnumber=4700408

Bui, B.D.; Caccamo, M.; Lui Sha; Martinez, J., "Impact of Cache Partitioning on Multi-tasking Real Time Embedded Systems," Embedded and Real-Time Computing Systems and Applications, 2008. RTCSA '08. 14th IEEE International Conference on , vol., no., pp.101-110, 25-27 Aug. 2008
Abstract: Cache partitioning techniques have been proposed in the past as a solution for the cache interference problem. Due to qualitative differences with general purpose platforms, real-time embedded systems need to minimize task real-time utilization (function of execution time and period) instead of only minimizing the number of cache misses. In this work, the partitioning problem is presented as an optimization problem whose solution sets the size of each cache partition and assigns tasks to partitions such that system worst-case utilization is minimized thus increasing real-time schedulability. Since the problem is NP-Hard, a genetic algorithm is presented to find a near optimal solution. A case study and experiments show that in a typical real-time embedded system, the proposed algorithm is able to reduce the worst-case utilization by 15% (on average) if compared to the case when the system uses a shared cache or a proportional cache partitioned environment.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4617278&isnumber=4617259

Xue Liu; Hui Ding; Kihwal Lee; Qixin Wang; Lui Sha, "ORTEGA: An Efficient and Flexible Software Fault Tolerance Architecture for Real-Time Control Systems," Real-Time Systems, 2008. ECRTS '08. Euromicro Conference on , vol., no., pp.125-134, 2-4 July 2008
Abstract: Fault tolerance is an important aspect in real-time computing. In real-time control systems, tasks could be faulty due to various reasons. Faulty tasks may compromise the performance and safety of the whole system and even cause disastrous consequences. In this paper, we describe ORTEGA (On-demand Real-TimE GuArd), a new software fault tolerance architecture for real-time control systems. ORTEGA has high fault coverage and reliability. Compared with existing real-time fault tolerance architectures, such as Simplex, ORTEGA allows more efficient resource utilizations and enhances flexibility. These advantages are achieved through the on-demand detection and recovery of faulty tasks. ORTEGA is applicable to most industrial control applications where both efficient resource usage and high fault coverage are desired.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4573109&isnumber=4573090

Qixin Wang; Gopalakrishnan, S.; Xue Liu; Lui Sha, "A Switch Design for Real-Time Industrial Networks," Real-Time and Embedded Technology and Applications Symposium, 2008. RTAS '08. IEEE , vol., no., pp.367-376, 22-24 April 2008
Abstract: The convergence of computers and the physical world is the theme for next generation networking research. This trend calls for real-time network infrastructure, which requires a high-speed real-time WAN to serve as its backbone. However, commercially available high-speed WAN switches (routers) are designed for best-effort Internet traffic. A real-time switch design for the aforementioned networks is missing. We propose a real-time switch design using a crossbar switching fabric. The proposed switch can be implemented by making minimal modification, or even simplification, to the widely implemented iSLIP crossbar switch scheduler. Our real-time switch serves periodic and aperiodic traffic with real-time virtual machine tasks, which simplifies analysis, provides isolation, and facilitates future hierarchical scheduling and flow aggregation. Taking advantage of the fact that most industrial real-time network flows rarely change, our switch is better adapted to providing high bandwidths and low latencies.
URL: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/stamp/stamp.jsp?arnumber=4550807&isnumber=4550765

Search-and-discover in mobile P2P network database

Mobile peer-to-peer data dissemination with resource constraints

Flooding by machine learning in mobile ad hoc networks
