* Development Tool

** Valgrind

- Valgrind tool suite provides a number of debugging and profiling tools.
1. Memcheck
2. Cachegrind
3. Callgrind
4. Massif - a space profiling tool
5. Helgrind - a debugging tool for threaded programs

- Running your program under Memcheck

<example>valgrind -leak-check=yes myprog arg1 arg2

** LatencyTOP

- LatencyTOP focuses on the type of latency that causes skips in audio, stutters in your desktop experience or that overloads your server. 

- Android has user space code version 0.1 ready. Kernel support has to be enabled manually.


---++ Make

   * To check if file exists in Makefile
<verbatim>
HAVE_POWERIC := $(wildcard kernel/include/power_ic/power_ic.h)
ifeq ($(strip $(HAVE_POWERIC)), )
all:
        echo "we don't have it"
else
all:
        echo "we have it"
endif

</verbatim>

---++ UML

UML defines the structural modeling diagrams, 6 in 1.x and 13 in 2.x.

<table width="100%" cellspacing="1" cellpadding="0" border="0"><tbody><tr><td width="3%" align="center" valign="top">- </td> <td width="96%"> The User Interaction or [[http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/tutorial/use_case_model.html][Use Case Model]] - describes the boundary and interaction between the system and users. Corresponds in some respects to a requirements model. </td> </tr> <tr> <td align="center" valign="top"> - </td> <td> The Interaction or Communication Model - describes how objects in the system will interact with each other to get work done. </td> </tr> <tr> <td align="center" valign="top"> - </td> <td> The State or [[http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/tutorial/dynamic_model.html][Dynamic Model]] - State charts describe the states or conditions that classes assume over time. Activity graphs describe the workflows the system will implement. </td> </tr> <tr> <td align="center" valign="top"> - </td> <td> The [[http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/tutorial/logical_model.html][Logical or Class Model]] - describes the classes and objects that will make up the system. </td> </tr> <tr> <td align="center" valign="top"> - </td> <td> The Physical [[http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/tutorial/component_model.html][Component Model]] - describes the software (and sometimes hardware components) that make up the system. </td> </tr> <tr> <td align="center" valign="top"> - </td> <td> The [[http://www.sparxsystems.com/resources/tutorial/physical_models.html][Physical Deployment Model]] - describes the physical architecture and the deployment of components on that hardware architecture. </td></tr></tbody></table>

Original article at http://www.sparxsystems.com/uml-tutorial.html

